computerCodingEssentials/unitPlanning.md, before:

# Computer Coding Essentials Course Plan
## Unit 1 Command Line
### Lessons in this Unit
#### Lesson 1 - Introduction
- Access the command line in Repl.it (and on chromebook for fun)
- Locate current absolute path of working directory
- Navigate the file tree absolutely and relatively
- Display the contents of a directory in the command line
#### Lesson 2 - Creating
- Create new directories using the command line
- Create new files inside directories
- Correctly add extensions to files of common types
#### Lesson 3 - Editing
- Move files using the command line
- Rename files using the command line
- Remove files using the command line
- Delete directories using the command line
### Keywords in this unit
- pwd
- ls
- cd
- cd ..
- -a
- -l
- mkdir
- touch
- mv
- rm
- rmdir
- rm -r
- rm -rf
### Terms in this unit
- Command Line
- absolute path
- working directory
- file tree
- directory
- extension
- delete
- rename
- arguments - you probably won't get this fully quite yet
- source
- target
### Transfer
In this unit students will learn to use the command line to navigate directory trees, add files and directories, change files and directories, and remove files and directories.
### Essential Understandings
- Files are arranged into directory trees with parents and children and can be manipulated using the command line.
- The command line is a faster way to do tasks that can be done with the GUI and it is often more powerful and therefore more dangerous.
### Essential Questions
- How are files arranged on the operating system?
- How do I find where I am and navigate the directory tree?
- How do I add and remove things from the directory tree?



## Unit 2 - Numbers and Math
### Lessons in this Unit
#### Lesson 1 - Integers, floats and the interpreter
- Use the python interpreter in the command line to perform mathematical operations
- classify numbers as either floats or ints
#### Lesson 2 - Operators
- - Use the 7 mathematical operators in python
### Key Terms in this Unit
- data types
- float
- int
- exponentiation
- modulo
- integer division
### Syntax in this Unit
- python3
- +
- -
- *
- /
- **
- %
- //
### Transfer
### Essential Understandings
- understand the difference between floating point numbers and integers in python
- use all 7 mathematical operators in python correctly, following the order of operations.
- python documentation is the best first reference.
### Essential Questions
- how are complex mathematical equations represented by plain text in python?

Commit message:

add unit 2 lesson 3; finish unit 2

computerCodingEssentials/unitPlanning.md, after:

# Computer Coding Essentials Course Plan
## Unit 1 Command Line
### Lessons in this Unit
#### Lesson 1 - Introduction
- Access the command line in Repl.it (and on chromebook for fun)
- Locate current absolute path of working directory
- Navigate the file tree absolutely and relatively
- Display the contents of a directory in the command line
#### Lesson 2 - Creating
- Create new directories using the command line
- Create new files inside directories
- Correctly add extensions to files of common types
#### Lesson 3 - Editing
- Move files using the command line
- Rename files using the command line
- Remove files using the command line
- Delete directories using the command line
### Keywords in this unit
- pwd
- ls
- cd
- cd ..
- -a
- -l
- mkdir
- touch
- mv
- rm
- rmdir
- rm -r
- rm -rf
### Terms in this unit
- Command Line
- absolute path
- working directory
- file tree
- directory
- extension
- delete
- rename
- arguments - you probably won't get this fully quite yet
- source
- target
### Transfer
In this unit students will learn to use the command line to navigate directory trees, add files and directories, change files and directories, and remove files and directories.
### Essential Understandings
- Files are arranged into directory trees with parents and children and can be manipulated using the command line.
- The command line is a faster way to do tasks that can be done with the GUI and it is often more powerful and therefore more dangerous.
### Essential Questions
- How are files arranged on the operating system?
- How do I find where I am and navigate the directory tree?
- How do I add and remove things from the directory tree?



## Unit 2 - Numbers and Math
### Lessons in this Unit
#### Lesson 1 - Integers, floats and the interpreter
- Use the python interpreter in the command line to perform mathematical operations
- classify numbers as either floats or ints
#### Lesson 2 - Operators
- Use the 7 mathematical operators in python
#### Lesson 3 - Order of Operations
- Follow the order of operations when evaluating and writing equations in python.
### Key Terms in this Unit
- data types
- float
- int
- exponentiation
- modulo
- integer division
### Syntax in this Unit
- python3
- +
- -
- *
- /
- **
- %
- //
### Transfer
### Essential Understandings
- understand the difference between floating point numbers and integers in python
- use all 7 mathematical operators in python correctly, following the order of operations.
### Essential Questions
- how are complex mathematical equations represented by plain text in python?
